---
title: Automatically Generated Post
description: Added a new command to distr to generate post templates.
template: post
date: Tue, 29 Jul 2025 12:47:32 -0000
tags: [distr, c, html, blog, automation]
---

# Automatically Generated Post

No... this is not my first time programming. I have been programming for so
long, I just came full circle and started using C for frontend development.

I have added a new command to distr that allows me to generate posts
automatically. This command will create a new post file with the necessary
metadata and a basic template.

I still have to write the content of the post manually, but at least I don't
have to worry about the format of the post file anymore. The command will
give me the outline and I can just fill in the title, description, date, and
tags.

Another update on the distr tool is that it now loads all the posts from the
`posts` directory and generates a huge header file with all the posts. Before,
it was doing this, but one post at a time. So I needed a `render.sh` script
to do the for loop. Now, distr does this automatically and generates the
`distr.h` file with all the posts.

You can see how this was implemented live at [this link](https://youtube.com/live/1fNHpG87gFs).

Or you can just check the code on [GitHub](https://github.com/alexjercan/alexjercan.github.io/tree/e5a45d00c901f2ffeacd8c56efaf2dcb4da9d30d).

Some future plans for distr include:
- Adding support for tags in the posts (actual pages that show related posts)
- Adding Markdown parsing support - right now I am just using a `<pre>` tag which is not ideal
- Adding support for a banner image in the post metadata
- Adding more stuff in the metadata, like being able to include custom CSS or more C code or stuff IDK
