---
title: Croof Ideas
description: Some ideas about how to improve croof
template: post
date: Sat, 02 Aug 2025 15:18:16 -0000
tags: [croof, ideas, programming language, rust, syntax]
---

# Croof Ideas

Here I will put down some ideas I had for croof in the past days

## Croof Syntax

### Set Definitions

To define a set we are going to use the `def` keyword, followed by a
*capitalized* word. Then we have an equal sign and a set expression. In this
first example, the set expression is delimited by `{` and `}`. But we might
also want to allow things like operations between sets.

Lets first take a look at a couple set definitions:

```croof
def Bool = { "false", "true" }
def Bit = { 0, 1 }
```

Now, I think what is important is that inside the set expression we can have
different things. In this example we have strings using `"` and numbers.

What would be kind of cool is a set being able to contain anything as long as
it has the same type. For instance:

```croof
def A = { "a" }
def B = { "b" }
def C = { "c" }
def Sets = { A, B, C }
```

In this case we have a set called "Sets" that contains other sets as elements.
This could allow on operations made on sets.

### Functions and Operators

I was thinking that for operators/functions you need to define all the "pattern
matching" behaviour in one place.

That way you can't just inject stuff like "1 + 1 = 3" in the REPL.

```croof
def + : N -> N -> N where
    forall a : N, forall b : N => a + b = b + a
    ...
end
```

Now, some problems I see. You can still just define a new operator and then
define "1 + 1 = 3" in there. How can we make sure that these definitions are
good? I guess one way could be to force that the main operation that is being
done is the one that is defined. Think of this as "we define PLUS, so in the
axioms we should define how PLUS works".

Let's look at other examples

```croof
def * : N -> N -> N where
    forall a : N, forall b : N, forall c : N => a * (b + c) = a * b + a * c
    ...
end
```

Here you can see that we define MULT (as "*") and then we have the main
operator on the left hand side of the equation as MULT again. Which I think
should be good enough.

### Built-in

Now let's take a look at some things that we might need, but we cannot really
express in this language. Let's say that we want the set of all Int numbers.
Well... we cannot really do that in this language... we can try to write all
the numbers by hand but that's not really feasable. This means that we need
some kind of built in for infinite sets. Let's say we might want infinite sets
for multiple things. One of them is obviously numbers. Maybe we want to call
it "Int" or "Integers" I guess "Int" is good enough. I also think that for this
language to be cool we want to allow Big numbers to exist. So we might want to
not limit on int64, but to allow arbitrary sized numbers. That is fine. Let's
say we add this set "Int". This will contain any number from -inf to +inf.
Let's also say that we need floats, we could add a set "Real" that spans the
same -inf to +inf, but also contains all float numbers. Keep in mind that these
are just concepts. We cannot really write down one of these sets and expand
them. We might be able to sample them, and get some kind of random value out.
But we are not able to visualize the entire set. That should not be allowed.

Last set that I think would make sense to be built in is "U". This would
represent the Universe set, that contains all other sets. Any set that you can
think of, should be included in U. Why is this useful? Well, we might want to
have operators that work on sets. For instance union, intersection etc. These
operators need a type, and U can be that type. Good.

Actually maybe another set that can be nice to have is the set of all strings.
But at this point IDK... like you could even say the set of all operators, or
the set of all functions. But is that really needed? Since we have U that might
not be needed... I mean... with U existing, do we need any other set?

Just like we define an operator we might be able to define a set similarly.

```croof
def N : U where
    ...
end
```

but now the question is what can we put in that where. We need some statements.

What if we allow recursive definitions?

```croof
def N : U where
    def zero : N where
        zero = 0,
    end,
    def succ : N -> N where
        ...
    end,
end
```

We all know that succ is something really specific for Natural numbers.

### Revised stuff

```croof
def N where
    0 : N,
    succ : N -> N,
end

def + : N -> N -> N where
    add_zero_left :: forall b : N => 0 + b = b,
    add_succ_left :: forall a : N, forall b : N => succ(a) + b = succ(a + b),
end

add_zero_right :: forall a : N => a + 0 = a proof
    case 0 =>
        0 + 0 = 0 [add_zero_left],
    case succ(a') =>
        succ(a') + 0 = succ(a' + 0) [add_succ_left]
                     = succ(a')     [IH],
end

add_succ_right :: forall a : N, forall b : N => a + succ(b) = succ(a + b) proof
    case 0 =>
        0 + succ(b) = succ(b) [add_zero_left],
        succ(0 + b) = succ(b) [add_zero_left],
    case succ(a') =>
        succ(a') + succ(b) = succ(a' + succ(b)) [add_succ_left]
                           = succ(succ(a' + b)) [IH],
        succ(succ(a') + b) = succ(succ(a' + b)) [add_succ_left],
end

add_comm :: forall a : N, forall b : N => a + b = b + a proof
    case 0 =>
        0 + b = b [add_zero_left],
        b + 0 = b [add_zero_right],
    case succ(a') =>
        succ(a') + b = succ(a' + b) [add_succ_left],
        b + succ(a') = succ(b + a') [add_succ_right]
                     = succ(a' + b) [IH],
end
```
